very excited for our guest today. Uh he
is Thomas Seaff Freed. He's a professor
of biology, genetics, and biochemistry
at Boston College. He received his PhD
from the University of Illinois, Urbana
Champagne. I went to Illinois State and
>> so did I.
>> Oh, no.
>> I got my master's degree there.
>> Oh, no kidding. Fantastic. uh while his
post-doalate fellowship studies were in
the department of neurology at the Yale
University School of Medicine where he
served in an assistant professor in
neurology he sits on several editorial
boards including those for nutrition and
metabolism neurochemical research and
the journal of lipid research and ASN
neuro where he is the senior editor. Dr.
Seaf Freed has over 150 peer-reviewed
publications and is the author of the
book right here, Cancer as a Metabolic
Disease on the Origin, Management, and
Prevention of Cancer. Welcome to the
show, Professor Thomas Seaf Freed. I
appreciate you being here.
>> Oh, thank you very much, Jimmy. It's
nice to be here.
>> So, I was uh introduced to you. I was on
a plane ride. I was It's so funny. Uh I
was in uh on vacation in Hawaii and I
was talking to Ed Dow who's done a lot
of work on excess deaths and he comes
from the financial world and we were
talking about all the lies we've been
told about medicine and things that we
can't we can't really wrap our minds
around how it's been so corrupted by
money. And he looks at me and he goes he
goes I I bet there's a cure for cancer
out there. And uh and I was just like oh
come on they wouldn't hide that. Well,
on the way home on that plane, I heard I
I come across this video on YouTube and
it's this professor and he's talking
about how he's been dealing with cancer
and it sounds to me like he's got a
pretty good hold on how to deal with it.
So, how tell me uh what is your ideas on
cancer and how to treat it because you
treat it by starving it. So, talk about
how you do that.
>> Yeah. Well, thanks Jimmy. Well, listen
about having a cure for cancer. Um,
you know, I I don't profess that at all.
Uh, I think we have better ways to
certainly manage cancer better better
than what's currently being done. I I I
I consider the term cure is kind of
arrogant. Um, it's been kicked around
for so long as if it's going to be uh
something like a cure for measles or uh
or a common cold or something like this.
I think we I think we should look at it
as more of a a more logical management
based on the science. Uh whe whether
whether that leads to a complete uh
resolution of someone's cancer, um
that's all well and good. U I mean, we
can have that with the current
strategies that we're using right now.
We have so-called millions of so-called
cancer survivors.
um uh but they also pay a serious price
sometimes for their for their survival
in the form of many other comorbid
character characts that they would have
gotten from the treatments. Um you know
our approach is based on the hard
science of what what the nature of
cancer is. Um, and it took I I'm
standing on the shoulders of Otto
Warberg uh who in the 1920s uh defined
what the nature of cancer was. And um he
was the dominant force in this field for
for decades and decades in Germany. He's
one of the the great thinkers and doers
of the 20th century. Um, but he was
thrown under the bus, so to speak, uh,
when, uh, Watson and Crick discovered
that, uh, DNA is the is the code for for
our lives and for genes. And they found
mutations in cancer cells and everybody
ran off chasing that and pretty much
left Warberg uh, behind. Uh but you know
we we were seeing really remarkable
effects
um with uh calorie restriction and
metabolic therapy. I I when the term
starving them um you know I guess you
could use that term to with with some
caveats
um where our research and that of many
others have shown that these tumor cells
cannot live very long without the sugar
glucose or the amino acid glutamine.
Warberg knew glucose was the prime fuel
for cancer but he knew nothing about the
glutamine issue and he also did not know
about what we call now the third form of
energy for cancer and that's a amino
acid fermentation based on the amino
acid glutamine. So, uh, we can clear up
a lot of the mystery and a lot of the
problems that Warberg had and bring the
bring the entire cancer field back onto
the right track where it should have
been uh, 70 or 80 years ago. Um, and as
you can see that we have not made any
major progress in reducing the death
rates for cancer mainly because the
theory under which the disease is viewed
is incorrect. It's not a genetic disease
as the National Cancer Institute and the
majority of institutes around the world
think. It's a mitochondrial metabolic
disease. And once you realize that the
the the treatments and the lives and and
success will be greatly improved.
>> So your approach to it, you don't appro
approach it as a genetic disease. you
approach. So what I what I've heard you
say is this thing about um the two fuels
that are needed for a for a cancer tumor
and [clears throat] those two fuels are
glucose and glutamine, right?
>> And so and so how do you treat that
then? So what is your approach?
>> Well, our approach [clears throat] and
and I learned this from my decades of
working at Yale with the epilepsy
foundations uh where they use ketogenic
diets to stop epileptic seizures. It's
one of the most common natural forms of
managing epileptic seizures in children.
Um well, we had we had parallel studies
going on in our lab uh with uh with uh
epilepsy, preclinical studies of
epilepsy as well as pre-clinical studies
of cancer. Uh but they weren't
overlapping. uh one was done
independently of the other until we
realized that um when we started to
calorie restrict some of the animals
that we had with tumors, we were seeing
dramatic reduction of of of tumor growth
and then we decided to use a because
Warberg said clearly that these tumor
cells are dependent on a a very poor
fermentation which is energy without
oxygen and he said that he was repeated
that's one of the interesting things
about cancer cells. They can grow
without oxygen and that oxygen comes
from fermentation. It's an ancient way
of getting energy. This is why how all
organisms existed on the planet before
oxygen came into the atmosphere 2.5
billion years ago that we were an anoxic
environment on this planet for for eons.
Um but the cancer cell interestingly
enough can live it live without oxygen.
So I said Warberg said what are they
using? Well, they ferment. Well, what do
they ferment? They ferment the sugar
glucose and they produce a waste product
of lactic acid. So, what we did, we when
we were doing our epilepsy work, we were
noticing that if we shut restricted
glucose in children or in our
pre-clinical models, uh we would get
management of seizures. But, you know,
it turned out that you'd say, well, then
you have to do water only fasting and
all this. Well, this is the way the
ketogenic diet started in 1921 at Mayo
Clinic. They said, 'Well, children or
people with epilepsy, if they stop
eating and just drink water, the
seizures would go away. But this is not
a long-term solution to the problem. So,
they developed a ketogenic diet in 1921
for epilepsy and uh it was lowering
blood sugar and elevating ketones and no
one to this day really understands how
that's blocking epileptic seizures. But
for cancer, it becomes very very clear
the tumor cell can't live without the
glucose and they because they ferment,
they can't use ketone bodies or fatty
acids as an alternative to glucose. So
you can checkmate them. Uh, and this is
the way a lot of people were using this.
The problem is some of these things
weren't working. And that's because they
also can sneak in the amino acid
glutamine, which no one really knew
about. Uh, they knew glutamine played a
role, but they didn't know it was
fermented. That's one of our big
contributions to the cancer field that
there's another fermentable fuel, a fuel
that can provide energy without oxygen,
and that's the amino acid glutamine,
which is the most abundant amino acid in
our bodies.
>> If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/keto
forcancer, the new community by our
research analyst Johnny Rocker. Within
this new community platform, you can
connect with other patients and learn
from their experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement. Starting with the
general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Ciphford. We will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy, as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperbaric
oxygen protocols.
So, take a look around at school.com/
keto for cancer.
>> So, how do you target glutamine without
harming the rest of the body? And that's
why we developed the press pulse
therapeutic strategy where we can stri
we can hold down glue. We don't need
glucose. The brain can transition to
ketone bodies and the heart can
transition to fatty acids. But the
cancer cells cannot transition. So they
are locked into these fermentation
pathways. So the solution to the cancer
problem a I don't want to say a
solution. I would say the most likely
and successful management would be to
restrict the two fermentable fuels while
transitioning the entire body over to
non-fermentable fuels which all of our
normal cells can use quite effectively.
We evolved to use alternative fuels to
glucose. Uh our paleolithic ancestors
were mostly in a state of ketosis which
is low glucose and elevated ketones
because there weren't delicates on every
corner during the paleolithic period. So
our our species evolved in a starving
environment and uh we're using we're
bringing the body back into those
environments simply to uh restrict and
target and gradually degrade uh the
growth of the tumors without toxicity.
This is the key thing. We can do that
without toxicity. It's very effective if
people know what to do and how to do it.
And that's we're writing protocols to do
that now.
So just let just let me see uh let me
try to sum up and you tell me where I'm
getting it wrong or right. So the cancer
tumor needs it has two forms of fuel.
One of them is glucose, one is
glutamate. So if you stop eating things
that produce glucose, meaning sugar, uh
carbohydrates, things like that, you can
starve, you can take that fuel away from
the tumor. And then it can also use
glutamate. Now glutamate.
>> Glutamine. Glut glutamine.
>> Glutamine. Thank you. Okay. So,
glutamine. Now, where does glutamine
like what food source has glutamine in
it?
>> Well, you that's the issue. You cannot
target glutamine with food sources. It's
synthesis. It's considered a
non-essential amino acid. Um, you can
the body can make it. It so it's not
that's why we know that there one of the
drugs we use is six deoxy norine. It's
called Dawn, D O N. The structure looks
almost identical to glutamine. The
problem is it's taken up in the cells
and it kind of gums up the entire
metabolic pathway for glutamine and the
cell can't can't use it. Now, they used
that drug years ago in oncology clinics
and said it was too toxic. They used it
on it did pretty well on leukemias and
little kids. Um, but they didn't know
how to use it. You know, we have all of
these tools in the toolbox, but you
really have to know how to use the tool
to make it work, right? We we use the
tool in a in a calorierestricted
ketogenic diet. Very low doses of
glutamine now. So, its power is there,
but its toxicity is significantly
reduced. So, it's again, if you know how
to use the tools in the toolbox, you can
get tremendous results. And the the
folks that were using Dawn in the past
were just given patients massive doses
of this without also targeting the key
metabolite glucose. So the tumor cells
were still allowed to grow because you
were you were hitting the the more minor
component rather than the major
component. So you take away glucose with
calorierestricted ketogenic diets and
then you take small doses of Dawn and
hit the and hit the uh the glutamine
pathway. So this makes perfect sense and
it and it works really really well. So,
it sounds like you're really on to
something. And again, this isn't some
kind of fringe theory. This is based on
decades and decades of research.
And
now, is it true that that the drug
you're talking about, so you you get rid
of so you change the diet and you get
rid of glucose and then you take a drug.
It's called DAN. That's the name of it
now.
>> Yeah. It's um it's it's a glutamine
analog meaning that the structure of D
in fact it was isolated as an antibiotic
years ago. They thought it was some sort
of a an antibiotic. So it's a natural
compound. Uh but it has a very a
structure very similar to that of
glutamine. But the problem is when it's
taken up in the cell it blocks the
glutaminolysis pathway. So you can't get
energy or nitrogen. Cancer cells need
nitrogen to make DNA and RNA. So they
need the glucose for metabolite
synthesis, lipids and proteins, and they
need the nitrogen from glutamine to
develop to make a growing cell. So we're
pulling the plug on both of the two key
fuels that these tumor cells need to
use. But we need drugs to target uh
glutamine. We the only thing I know to
target glutamine minimally is exercise.
So if people do good exercise, the late
uh uh
George Cahill from Joslin Diabetes
Center here in Boston showed years ago
that glutamine, heavy exercise, good
walking, and this kinderobic exercise
could lower levels of glutamine, but
it's not to the level that it was it
certainly helps, but then when you push
a little bit of Dawn on top of an
exercise person who's in therapeutic
ketosis, man, uh well, the old pro the
problem is not only does the cancer get
hammered but so does the di type two
diabetes, cardiovascular disease,
hypertension, high blood pressure all
those kinds of things start disappearing
along with the cancer cells.
>> So now this drug dawn is it readily
available? Are are doctors able to get
it and prescribe it?
>> No, that's one of the great tragedies
and um uh you know uh there's some
companies in China that make it. You
know I'd like to test everything
thoroughly before I rely on anybody. I I
get it from chemical supply where they
where they say not for human use but it
certainly works and um uh the problem is
it should be the singular most available
drug for cancer um because we've shown
how we get rid of the toxicity that
everybody was afraid of. So uh and it's
and when you look at the level of
toxicity it's nothing as toxic as some
of the stuff we're giving to the poor
patients today. So uh um and we found a
way to keep the therapeutic efficacy
while removing the toxicity because we
know now how to use the tools. Once you
know how to use the tools in the
toolbox, you can start making
tremendous. Now it's not that people
say, "Oh, they have a cure for cancer."
Let's be honest, we have a lot of ways
to manage cancer. The problem is a lot
of people just don't know how to tools
to use the tools that we have.
>> So um
>> Go ahead. No, but I'm just saying we
some of the some of the drugs that we
use for managing cannabis, some of these
incredibly toxic drugs, um we can use
much much lower doses of these things if
the patients are in metab therapeutic
ketosis. We don't need to use these
incredibly toxic things that that are
off have uh offtarget effects. This is
the key thing. Offtarget effects damage
your gut, your immune system. They
damage all kinds of other physiological
systems that we need to be a functional
healthy individual. So if you know how
the weaknesses of the tumor cell, you
can selectively target and kill them
without harming the rest of the body. If
you know that first of all, you have to
know that cancer is a mitochondrial
metabolic disease. And what I'm saying
makes perfect sense in that sphere. But
if people think cancer is a genetic
disease, then you treat people with all
these kinds of things that really don't
work.
>> So, um, why is why do you think so? This
to me sounds like a a big deal and a and
a big breakthrough that you've you've uh
researched and discovered and have
engineered through. And so now
you would think that this would be u
front page news every day, top of the
news on every Why do you think it's not
ideological dogma?
>> So could you expand on that?
>> The National Cancer Institute and many
of the top cancer institutes throughout
the world think cancer is a genetic
disease. If you go to the website for
the National Cancer Institute, you say,
"What is cancer is a genetic disease
caused by mutations that lead to damage
in the DNA?" And the DNA damage leads to
disregulated cell. So you have to say to
yourself, what is the definition of
cancer? Cell division out of control.
Disregulated cell growth. What is
driving the disregulated cell growth? A
fermentation metabolism. How is that
possible? Because the organel that
controls the differentiated state is the
mitochondria. It's in the cytoplasm of
the cell. That organel controls division
and controls the quescent state. When
that organel becomes damaged in some
way, the cells fall back on these
ancient pathways that existed in all of
our cells, but they're very minor, but
they were major before oxygen came into
the atmosphere. So, the cancer cells are
simply falling back on these ancient
pathways. Well, this is a totally
different concept than the dogmatic view
of what cancer is today, which is a
genetic disease. Therefore, the drug
so-called precision medicine targeted
therapies, they're going after
mutations, uh, which are now we have
shown and others have shown that when
these organels, the mitochondria become
corrupted, they throw out what we call
reactive oxygen species coming out of
these cytoplasmic mitochondria. They are
the ones that cause the mutations in the
DNA. The mutations in the DNA are an
effect of the abnormal energy
metabolism. They're not the cause of the
disregulated cell growth. So the whole
paradigm changes.
>> So you're saying what the conventional
medical the cancer institutes say is
that this is caused by a a DNA mutation.
But what you're saying is not that the
cancer actually causes the DNA mutation.
Is that what you're saying? Is that what
I hear? Yes, the mutations are the are
the effect. They're not the cause.
>> And so they're you come at it from a
totally different way than they're
coming at it. And what's your success
rate would you say? How what how how
many patients? Go ahead.
>> No, this is another uh extremely
important uh uh for we have many uh
obstacles to moving metabolic therapy or
metab metabolic oncology into
mainstream. Number one, none of the
physicians, very few physicians even
understand this. Uh they've never been
trained to look at cancer as it
something other than what the system
tells them tells them what it is. So we
don't have trained personnel. We have an
institutions that say it's a genetic
disease. We have the whole system is set
up for revenue generation to treat
cancer as a genetic disease. So you see
optivo katrudo carti imunotherapy all
these things they're based on a somatic
mutation theory of cancer and if the
somatic mutation theory of cancer is not
correct the outcome from treatments
based on that theory will never be
optimal and that's exactly what we see
we see all these poor folks uh being
brutalized uh by a system treating them
for for toxicity and hoping to kill the
tumor yes those drugs will kill cancer
cells no question about it but they make
you so bald, your gums are bleeding,
your liver is blown out, your kidneys
are blown out, you have gut problems,
the mental problem. I mean, this is all
uh what would be totally expected if the
theory under which you're treating the
disease is incorrect. So what we're
seeing the cancer epidemic is due to an
incorrect theory. And the correct theory
is what Otto Warberg said a long long
time ago and what our research has
solidified that it's a mitochondrial
metabolic disorder. It's not a genetic
disorder. Now can you just is it
possible for you to explain to me what
when you when you say mitochondria or
mito what is that
we have a cell and in the cell you have
what they call organels
and you see a big nucleus everybody
looks onto a cell and say what's that
big round thing that's a nucleus
contains the DNA chromosomes and genes
on the chromosomes but then you see all
kinds of other stuff outside the nucleus
you You see losomes, GGI apparatus,
endoplasmic reticulum, a lot of stuff is
outside inside the cell but outside the
nucleus. And one of the organels outside
the nucleus is the mitochondrian.
Interestingly enough uh in the evolution
of species on the planet. These
originally were two different
independent species of or of organisms,
but they fused together uh and formed
this hybrid uh organel where where you
had a an or an organism that could
capture the energy of oxygen which was
slowly increasing by coobacteria in the
atmosphere. And that organel uh then
transformed this cell into a much more
energyefficient kind of a cell. And once
you have energy efficiency that leads to
metazoans which are multisellular
organisms. Don't forget everything on
the planet ex evolved as a singular cell
a single thing. Well where did we get
all these complex plants and animals and
all this other stuff. It came from the
fusion of one or organism one kind of a
bacteria with another kind of a
bacteria. But this one kind of a
bacteria could capture oxygen and use it
for energy energy efficiency. So then
you could get multisellular organisms
and you can begin to see the evolution
of species on the planet. The problem is
those ancient pathways are present in
all of our cells except they're very
very minor. But when the cancer cell
loses that organism, it's kind of like
it has its own DNA. It's like a second
organism inside of another one. The
mitochondrian is like another or it has
its own DNA. It's very interesting. um
they have relinquished all of their
genes to the the nucleus except 13 genes
that control the keys to the kingdom.
When I say that when those anything
happens to one of those 13 genes in this
mitochondrian immediately causes the
death of the cell. The problem is if
that organel becomes damaged or
corrupted by by carcinogens, smoking,
hypoxy, all this uh it loses control and
what happens then is the cell falls back
on the proliferative aspect. They they
lose control of the differentiated state
and this is exactly what's happening in
these cancer cells. The organel that's
supposed to maintain differentiation and
homeostasis becomes corrupted. The cell
falls back on ancient fermentation
pathways which lead to disregulated cell
growth. Everything is completely
explained if you understand evolutionary
biology. So once you understand
evolutionary biology, then what I'm
saying makes perfect sense.
So
I I mean you're not you're not some
fringe guy, right? I mean you're from
Yale, you're from Boston University,
>> Boston College, I'm sorry, Boston
College. Why? Why?
Um, how how how successful are you at
getting your message out? Uh, and and
and
what what what do you think is the big
stumbling block to getting more people
to know about your method for managing
cancer?
>> Well, you're talking to me right now.
>> Okay. Right. Okay. All of our papers,
all this, you know, we've been working
on this for, you know, for 40 years. I
mean, that my my publications are out
there. anybody can look my name up and
and if you if you think, "Oh, what's the
details? I I don't believe what he's
saying." Well, why don't you read the
damn papers? Um, read the details of the
papers I published. They're open access.
Anybody that has a computer can go into
Google, look my name up, and say, "Let
me see what he says about the the press
pulse therapy theory. Let let me see
what he says about the origin of
cancer." It's all there. It's all there.
I I'm not h anybody can read it. The
problem is they don't read it. That's
the big problem. You got to have
somebody reading the papers to
understand what you're talking about.
So now do you actually do you ever treat
uh people or do you advise doctors who
treat people?
>> I can ad I'm not a physician. I can't
treat anybody. I can't tell anybody what
to do or what not to do. I can send them
literature and knowledge and bring them
in contact with some people but I cannot
uh give medical advice to anyone. That
has to be done by someone who's licensed
to do that. Now, I do work with a number
of physicians who are chomping at the
bit to do this. The pro the problem is,
oh, they say, "Where's the clinical
trial? I can't believe anything unless
you have a clinical trial." Okay. Well,
who's going to do the clinical trial?
And and if you don't and the
institutional review boards, the IRB of
all of major hospitals has to make a
decision as to whether or not a
particular uh strategy would be allowed
to take place. And what we found in the
brain cancer, the glyopblasto field,
they will not allow metabolic therapy to
be used unless the patient is also
irradiated. And we published the brain,
the brain being irradiated. And I
published several papers uh providing
hard evidence in no uncertain detail and
no uncertainty that radiating a brain
with somebody with a tumor frees up
massive amounts of glucose and glutamine
in the brain of the patient with the
brain tumor leading to their rapid
recurrence of the tumor and the death of
the patient. This uh type of therapy for
brain cancer is present in every major
medical school throughout the world. You
can go to Germany, Japan, anywhere in
the United States. They all have to have
their brain irdiated as part of the
standard of care. And I have published
on with when with I keep publishing
these papers showing that by doing that
to the patient, you have essentially
sealed their demise. And and you think
that somebody would read the papers to
see the evidence that I'm giving and yet
they don't. And and and you say, why is
what is going on here? Why are these uh
institutions so resistant to using
metabolic therapy? And it's the
institutional system of standard of care
linked into all of these different
procedures that now would cause a uh but
I'm not I'm just saying get rid of
radiation for brain cancer, but I'm not
saying get rid of radiation for other
kinds of cancers. It might be
successful. So I think we need to know
how to do this and the strategies that
we need to. So you're you're you're
right. A lot has to change. A lot of
people need to know what's going on and
the scientists themselves need to know
what's going on and a lot of them don't.
I mean, we've just uh at this show we
you know, we live through COVID and we
saw how money is involved with treating
things and um uh the uh
uh the propaganda campaign against um
Ivormectin for instance, right? So they
made you think that Ivormectin was this
horse paste as opposed to what it
actually is, which is a Nobel Prize
winning medicine that's on the WHO list
of essential medicines that's been
prescribed billions of times, saved
billions of lives. But they made
everybody in the United States at least
believe that if you even mention that
you were some kind of a a wing nut and
that you were uh you're talking about uh
veterinary medicine. That's how powerful
propaganda is. and they you know and
then they push their their medicine that
they have there's no patent right so
there's no patent on ivormectin so now
this this medicine so now I
>> you wouldn't do that just to make money
risk everyone's life
>> so so do you think [laughter] the
problem that um you're facing is that
you're not pushing a pill and that that
so if you were pushing a pill that a big
pharma uh sutical of a company could get
behind they would then fund the the
trials they would get the places to do
the trials because there's money to be
made, but the way you're treating it
doesn't seem like there's a big cash cow
involved, right?
>> Well, no, it can be, but but you're
you're 100% correct, but but uh but like
the for example, perfect example, the
the the drug I was talking about, Don,
do 60 deoxy or lucine, it's not
patentable. Uh yet it's extremely
powerful and powerfully therapeutic.
Okay. However, so you get big drug
companies um will take that drug and put
a little uh tail on it, a few carbon
extra tail, making it slightly different
from the original molecule and uh now
they'll try to treat patients with that
because they're they're argu the
therapeutic benefit will be maintained
but I've slightly changed the structure
of the drug to make it patentable and
make a billion dollars. The the problem
is they don't use the full package of
what you need to do. They're going to
run into the same problem with that drug
as the people did when they used the
original molecule. If you don't target
the glucose at the same time you're
targeting the glutamine, you're not
going to be success. You're not going to
have the level of success that you will.
So you'd say to the drug I in fact I
spoke to the drug companies. They said,
"Listen, if you take that drug of yours
and mix it in with a calorierestricted
ketogenic diet, you're going to get
tremendous results." They said, "We
can't do that." I said, "Why?" Because
we won't know if the therapeutic benefit
is from our drug or from the diet. I
said, "Who cares? The patient's going to
live longer." And they don't care about
that. They only want to know if their
drug has any modum of effect. Yeah, I
probably will, but you're not going to
achieve the success that you probably
could achieve. and then try to do a
clinical trial where you're modifying
and we built this glucose ketone index
calculator at Boston College with my
students and it tells people when
they're in nutritional ketosis when the
body gets into nutritional ketosis
that's when you bring the drugs in at
low doses that's when you get the
powerful therapeutic effect. So you have
to know how to play different drugs and
physiological systems off each other to
get the maximum therapeutic benefit. And
when you talk to the standard of care,
the way they they just the way they
evaluate drugs, it's not part of their
paradigm. So um so again, it's another
obstacle to moving metabolic therapy
forward because the clinical trials
design has to be completely different.
It it has to be different from what the
system says it should be. So we're
talking about it's it's it's a
combination
of cutting off the fuel uh through diet
uh for the for the ca for the tumor for
the cancer tumor. Current medicine
current the the current uh standard of
care is to treat cancer as a a problem
with your DNA a mutation of the DNA. Now
your research has revealed that it's
actually not that that it's actually the
the DNA uh gets mutated because of the
cancer and so they're so that most of
modern medicine that's treating cancer
the standard of care is coming at it
from the wrong way and that you come at
it through a combination of diet and uh
drugs and the drug is called DAN. So you
block the uh glucose and glutamate. Is
that how you say it?
>> Glutamine.
>> Glutamine. Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> And this is So but so there isn't so
there isn't like if I if I uh if someone
has cancer, there isn't anywhere they
can go for this treatment, is there?
>> No. Well, there there there are some
small clinics that are attempting to do
this um after they read my stuff. And we
we've we're we're very close to
submitting a a very comprehensive
treatment protocol uh for glyobblastoma
top brain cancer a deadly brain tumor.
But you know it's the same. One of the
things that we we found Jimmy was that
uh when I did a deep dive on on looking
at that organel mitochondria
um it's it's abnormal in all major
cancers. So all major cancers that we
know of are all doing the same thing to
to grow. they're using that fermentation
u that those two fuels. So one cancer is
not not very much different from any
other cancer and this is another
challenge that the field can't
understand because when you look at it
from the DNA perspective they all look
different from each other but when you
look at them from the mitochondrial
metabolic perspective they're all very
very similar. So um yeah so there's a
common strategy uh for managing uh these
cancers once you know the biochemistry
and and the other thing is don't don't
forget that this concept of mine and uh
is it was built based on the concept of
Warberg and uh Sam Apple wrote a big
book called Ravenous about the history
of Otto Warberg I mean he was a giant
don't forget Hitler he was half Jewish
and Hitler kept him alive uh during the
Second World War in Germany knowing that
if there was ever going to be a solution
to the cancer problem, Warberg would
find it. Um, and uh, the issue is is
that this guy was a Nobel Prize winner,
a giant in the biochemistry field. And
all I did was simply confirm that he was
in fact correct. But not only that, we
we found out where he made some of his
errors and we corrected them. So it's
not like all of this is mine. All I did
was take what was already known and just
expand it and show that that is the real
issue of cancer. Whereas the field uh
ran off uh chasing genes and doing
multi-billion dollar genome projects and
all these kinds of things that are is
largely good money thrown after bad. Not
not to say that that stuff can't help
for something else, but it certainly
hasn't done anything to manage and
reduce the death rate for cancer. That's
for sure.
So all this so maybe you can answer this
maybe you can't the so
the the KMAN Foundation and all the
money that they've raised to fight
breast cancer
it doesn't seem to me maybe maybe I'm
wrong correct me if I am that doesn't
seem like they've made any progress and
>> yeah they have and not only they don't
make progress um the more money you give
to Susan Coleman the more more cancer
you get the more breast breast cancer is
now replacing heart disease and number
one killer of women. Um, but what so
what I did is I went to look at Coleman
and I said, "Why are they not making any
progress with all the money that people
raise for the breast cancer thing and I
looked at their scientific advisory
board and I looked up the the scientific
publications that their scientific
advisory board produce in the scientific
literature and it's all that cancer is a
genetic disease. So if your scientific
advisory board thinks cancer is a
genetic disease, you can give hundred
billion dollars to the comman and you're
not going to get anything from it. And
there's no accountability. Where does
all that money go? People run and
jumping. They they they just say, "Oh, I
feel good." You feel the people who
benefit from Coleman are the ones who
run and jump. They get healthier doing
that. But the money they're raising for
the to reduce breast cancer. That's not
doing anything at all because the
scientific advisory board itself has a
misunderstanding of what the nature of
breast cancer is. metabolic therapy has
been very very successful against
managing breast cancer. So clearly uh
the field has to change man. It's not
it's not on the right path. And we
showed Warberg showed and others I I
want to say there's a lot of others out
there that are also showing the same
thing we're showing except we're we're
doing a deeper dive. Uh we're
challenging what scientific uh
understanding not the mutations. That's
pretty much uh a done deal as far as I'm
concerned. The issue is this new concept
of energy metabolism through
fermentation in the mitochondria itself.
This is new. This is the new thing. So,
uh this is what we're trying to
establish the scientific evidence for
because once we do that then we can put
together Warberg's the problems that
Warberg had and why his theory and why
his hypothesis was terminated when we
can now resurrect it and bring it back
on the right path. But we have to do so
many experiments in the lab to prove
that because I am in the field of
science. I am a I am a a skeptic myself.
I don't believe anything until I can see
the hard data and the control
experiments and done again and again and
again. Show me the evidence and then we
have to prove that to our other
colleagues. We in our our field we have
to show them the evidence. And to do
that requires a lot of time and energy.
So my pre-clinical systems and my staff,
we're working day and night proving that
the cancer cell is getting its sole
energy from these fermentation
mechanisms. So and we have to prove that
with with evidence and that's what we
do.
>> And so
how how how you know how much longer do
you think it will take before you'll
have enough of the data uh that you
won't have to keep trying to prove it.
It will be proven and people could just
look at it. Well, I think with our
treatment protocol right now, I think
once people start using it, they're
going to start to see remarkable success
if they're allowed to use it. If a
system, if a medical school would allow
it to be done and that also because to
allow our stuff to be done, it has to be
done the exact way we uh outline because
a lot of these people, you'll see a lot
of these ketogenic diet trials. Oh,
ketogenic diet, ketogenic diet. you hear
about all this ketogenic diet and then
when you say it didn't work it helped
this guy didn't help that guy every time
you look at it they never did it the
correct way you got people who who have
tools they don't know how to use the
tools
>> you know so uh you have to have the
guides who know what to do and how to do
it and we're training those and showing
those folks what to do and how to do it
that's that's the mission of of patient
outcome and then we have the preclinical
mechanism of action outcome so we we hit
the problem from two different
directions. One is the basic hard
science and the other is once you know
that how does it work in the clinic. So
you have other challenges in getting
people to get into therapeutic ketosis
and what do dosage timing and and uh uh
scheduling of the drugs that are needed.
It's not just Don Don is the best for
sure but the drug companies are making
all these glutamine inhibitors um and
they some of them may be very very
effective but they have to do it with
the entire package in order to get the
maximum outcome. And if they don't do
that, they're never going to achieve
what we think can be achieved, which is
uh a reduction in cancer deaths by 50%
in seven to 10 years. This is what if
people did metabolic therapy the right
way, that would be the outcome and you
would see the needle drop. You would see
a movement of the needle in the correct
direction.
>> So you say 50%. Why wouldn't it be 100%
if this is actually the mechanism for
fighting it? Well, you you have to
realize that some people come into the
clinic in all different states of of of
of disease, uh compliance issues. There
are other issues that uh could at first
uh be problematic. It's going to take
several years for physicians to know the
nuance of it's not a one shoe fits all.
Each person's has to be uh screened
metabolically before we treat uh any of
the patients. So, we do comprehensive
blood work. my colleagues, not me, my
colleagues that work under our uh
guidance. So, we have to find out how
many different metabolic problems these
people have. Many of them don't just
have cancer. Many of them have type 2
diabetes. Some of them have high blood
pressure, hypertension. You have to
bring the body into a new metabolic
state before you can start hammering
away at the tumor. You want those tumors
to be extremely vulnerable, not at their
strongest, at their weakest. So, and
this is takes time, but I think from if
you go to the um uh cancer revolution
documentary movie that's being made by
Brad and Maggie Jones, they are now
collecting more and more folks that have
been doing metabolic therapy, all stage
four terminal cancer patients that are
done metabolic therapy outside of a
clinical trial. So, uh, but they're all
alive far far longer than they would
have been had they done, uh, standards
of care, but they don't believe that
because they call each one an anecdote.
Anecdote. Anyway, why you give me a
clinical trial? I got to see a clinical
trial. Well, who's going to do a
clinical trial? The system is not ready
for the clinical trial. So, you're
saying that I so I know someone who has
stage four cancer and you're saying that
even something with stage four cancer,
which is considered terminal, that this
approach could help them.
>> Yeah. Well, you know, here's the here's
the interesting thing. Uh many people,
not all people, but they they come and
they they they go, "Oh, I got some lump.
I got some bleeding. I got something of
this that." I go down, they do a biopsy
and whatever, and they say you have uh
you have stage four cancer. And the guy
said, "Well, I know I didn't feel great,
but I didn't know I had a terminal
disease, but they're at that point
they're pretty healthy." Um uh that's
when metabolic therapy would would
really have a massive impact. But if
they go to standard of care and get
radiated and poisoned with these toxic
drugs and surgical mutilations and all
this kind of stuff, the body is beat
down severely. and then you try to
rescue that kind of a person with
metabolic therapy, your success rate is
not going to be as good as if you try if
you approach that patient at the very
beginning of the diagnosis. So, and we
use we don't we don't I don't like
biopsies. I have dozens of papers in the
scientific literature showing that
biopsy spreads cancer can spread the
cancer around. So, why are you doing
that in the first place? People got very
upset when I said that. I said, why? I'm
not saying it. The science the paper's
in the scientific literature. All you
have to do is the paper. Well, I never
saw that. Well, you don't read the
scientific literature like I do. So,
many physicians have done and shown
cancer is spread by surgical
inappropriate surgical procedures,
inappropriate biopsy procedures. We we
we why do a biopsy when you can shrink
the damn thing down and then if it's
really small, you you have the surgeon
take the whole thing out rather than
stabbing it and wondering where why the
person got metastatic cancer. Um, so
we've looked into all of these kinds of
things. It's we've got everything there.
It's just to to manage cancer
effectively. It's just that we don't
have the the strategies in place and let
the people know what they should do and
should not do under these particular
conditions. How long will that take? I
don't know.
>> So, you know, I keep hearing you say the
same thing about how people who doubt
you and you go, "Well, have you read the
did you see? Are you informed?" And
they're not. So, that's the same.
>> Why would I be informed?
>> See, [laughter] it's very
it's very
It's very similar to what we experience
at this show when because this whole
show is about debunking mainstream
narratives about everything in mostly
about war uh but politics and co and
Russia gate and and so we've and we do
and so when we tell people that they
look at us like we have 10 heads and I
say well did you see this? They're like
no and I'm like will you will you read
it? No. And so hey did you read the
Durham report? Did you read? No, they
won't. So I I I sh So So let me ask you
this. How do you So this must be
unbelievably extremely frustrating to
you as someone who's on the forefront of
this kind of knowledge and and people
seem to be in curious about it. How do
you keep your sanity?
>> You know, it's a good My students ask me
that all the time um because we're doing
the research and we're all scratching
our head, but this is the history of
science. Um, every time there's been a
major paradigm change in the history of
science, there's been massive resistance
uh to it for whatever reason, the the
challenge to the geocentric theory of
the solar system that the earth was the
center of the solar system. Yes,
>> the Catholic Church and its power.
Guadano Bruno was burned at the stake in
Rome for his challenge of that.
>> So, um, um, uh, Lewis Pastor's germ
theory, he was eviscerated by the MDs at
that time.
>> Yes. the Darwin theory of re of
evolution eviscerated. Um the difference
between the somatic mutation theory of
cancer which is the current view versus
the mitochondrial metabolic theory which
is the correct view. Uh the difference
between these paradigms is is that we
have 1700 people a day dying from
cancer. Se in an hour we're having 70
people in an hour dying from cancer.
those other paradigm problems were not
linked to dead people on a daily hourly
basis. So how long do you want to wallow
in ignorance uh because your uh ideology
prevents you from shifting to a new
paradigm? People want to live. They're
willing to do this if given the
opportunity by people who know what to
do. So this is the tra this is the
greatest tragedy in the history of
medicine because we have the possibility
of keeping people alive. I'm not saying
curing them, but we can certainly keep
them alive with a higher quality of life
and improved overall survival better
than what we currently have. And we're
locked into a dogmatic ideology that
prevents this from happening. And as
Upton Sinclair said, it's very difficult
to get somebody to appreciate something
different when their salary depends on
them not appreciating it. So we have
that issue as well. So there's a lot of
uh issues.
>> So what would what would be your advice
to someone who is diagnosed with cancer?
What what so some somebody watching the
show just got diagnosed with cancer.
What what what should they do?
>> Well, this is everybody says that you
know they say this guy talks to talk. He
gives you all this information and then
where do we go? And the answer is why
why don't people write to the na the the
the head of the National Cancer
Institute they and to let them know what
the hell is going on here? You guys have
a tag on the on your thing saying it's a
a genetic disease and if you sit down
and look at the evidence it's not a
genetic disease. You guys have to get
your your your acting together. And
don't forget uh Jimmy in in 1984
uh the progress in cancer research was
done pri primarily by the government the
the national cancer institute. In 1984
the progress was considered too slow. So
they invited the pharmaceutical
companies into the academic institutions
to facilitate
>> to facilitate the development of drugs.
How's that working? How's that working
out today? Not good.
>> Okay. So you have a lot of major uh uh
uh systems in place that are resistant
to this kind of a change. The only thing
that we have on our side are people that
want to live. That bottom line, I want
to live I want to see my sons, my
grandchildren. I want to see my loved
ones live a little longer and not be
brutalized by a system using incorrect
tools in the incorrect way. So how long
will that take? I don't know. Okay.
Who's going to step forward and do a
trial? Well, I'll be happy to uh once we
have the protocol. The problem is you
can't do that. It's always you can't. I
talked to these guys. Oh, you can't do
that. Oh, you can't do this. Oh, the
system says you have to do that. I'm
saying, man, people want to live here.
Don't you understand? People want to
live. You're telling them they can't do
that. They can't do this. If you do it
the way we say you do it, you're going
to live longer and you're gonna have
Well, that's that's not the way we do
things. Well, I'm sorry. People are
dying all and I I that's what kills me
when I see all these letters coming to
me. Hundreds and hundreds of letters.
Sometimes I stop and I have to take a
breath. I I can't read anymore of this
of this tragedy, the torture of what
these people are going through. The the
Spanish Inquisition could not torture
some people as bad as what we're doing
to some of these cancer patients. So,
it's absolutely incredible. And we don't
have to be doing that. That's the key
that Yes. You want to know the
frustration? We don't have to be doing
this to people.
It sounds pretty frustrating. So, all
right. Well, um, where should if people
want to, uh, find out more about your
work, where should they go?
>> Well, I mean, as I said, we have a this
my book here, and everybody many, many,
many people get upset because John Wy
Press, which is a dominant uh, publisher
of scientific uh, academic science
books, you know, it's $150, $100 or
something. It's not like something you
can, you know, pick up off a airport
newsstand. Um, but that has a lot of
information in it. Um, the the that we
get support for our research primarily
from private foundations and
philanthropy. I'm always wondering why
they give hundreds of millions of
dollars to some of these cancer
institutes and no one asked for
accountability. It's like where does all
that money go? You give and every year
more you get more cancer. um you know,
nobody's given me uh $10 million to do.
If we had that kind of money, we would
hire more postocs and we would set up
clinics and we would start testing
people the way we think we should be
testing them. So, uh the solutions are
all there. It's just that we have to put
the package together. And I don't want
to call a solution. I would say a great
advance in management. Let's put it that
way. A great advance in management.
>> Okay, Professor Thomas Seaff Freed, I
really appreciate you coming on. That's
the book, Cancer as a Metabolic Disease.
Um, and I really appreciate you doing
that work. And if you have any any more
stuff you'd like to talk about, please
let us know. We'd love to have you back
on.
>> Well, thank you very much, Jay. Thank
you very much for having me here. Hey,
come see us live on tour in Los Angeles,
Palm Springs, Stockholm, Amsterdam,
Roderdam, Berlin, Copenhagen, Oslo,
Stradsburg, Pennsylvania, Courtland, New
York, Oakmont, Pennsylvania, right
outside Pittsburgh, El Paso, and San
Antonio, Texas. Go to jimmy.com for a
link for all those tickets.
>> [music]